---
title: "Father's Day"
date: 'Jun 21, 2020'
excerpt: 'Something that will remain in the archives'
cover_image: '/images/contentImages/fathersday.jpg'
area: 'perceptionss'
---

Happy fathers day to all the fathers in this world, I don't wanna say anything that has already been saying about dads, that they are Heroes, their love and everything.
World Is a combination of all sorts of people, kind, harsh, wise, naive etc. Some people find it easy to express their emotions and love some people and hesitate with others. 
it's the level of Understanding people have with certain people which allows them to share and let the emotions flow. 
I have Lived more with my Mother, Dad was usually posted to different parts of the country, and due to education or the place, we weren't able the go with him everywhere he was posted.  Which made us closer to Mom, I can go and hug my mom without any hesitation, but trying to greet my father sometimes gets me thinking, I don't know what I think, its just some hesitation, which stops me, and when I do, there is a nice and the warmest smile I see on his face when he says thank you, I don't know anyone so confident, who has no sort of shyness while saying thanks on his face when he says Thank You, I see a man who is just welcoming the greeting with his arms open and a big smile with a lot of confidence. The thank you is loud, but not in a negative way, it's the type of energy that motivates you to be a better man in life. It's energy directed in the right direction. 

He is fun-loving, extroverted when he is out and Way to introverted when he is at home. 
He is the first one to wake up, like any other dad, does his exercise, is ready, fresh and done with the breakfast by 830 and then reads the newspaper for an hour or so.

He then uses his phone, sleeps wakes up, phone, Lunch, phone, sleep, evening exercise, Phone, Dinner, Phone and sleep. And the things he does on phone are also somewhat sorted, he'll watch the news in the morning, youtube in the afternoon and evening, and news and Whatsapp at night.
Well, this is the part that hurts me and makes me think a lot.
So I'll explain our home roughly first, there are two rooms and a hall connecting them, his room is the on the left side of the hall and ours(kids) on the right, there are two Single sofa chairs a sofa and a Bed in his room and one bed in ours, and a table. he sits on either of the chairs, throughout the day, and lays on the bed before sleeping in the morning, afternoon and evening, so basically, I have a laptop that doesn't work until it is plugged into a power source, so I have reserved a corner for myself, here, I can't take the laptop in his room because, no one likes wires here and there, and I'm on my laptop on the better part of the day. So I don't hear an option to sit in his room, apart from the time I'm eating, we eat together.

My sisters are busy, with their office work, mom with the household work, one of my sister, sits in either of the rooms, and the elder one doesn't move from her bed. The part where I think a lot is, and I am 100% guilty of it, is, that when  I was in my hostel, I had more conversations with him than I have now, while we are living together. And since I'm at home, I see he doesn't talk much on phone, maybe once in 2 days, rarely. Then I think about the times when I was in hostel, where he would call every night and talk to me, and I was such an idiot to understand it at that time, that I'm the one he talks to on a daily basis, and mother, sisters were in office during the day, and would come late at night, so there wasn't time for them to talk. He used to call me, and by chance one day I didn't he would say, why didn't you call yesterday, I've said you to call me every day, little did I know then, how much it meant to him, that one phone call, me like an arrogant son, would give pseudo signs to my brain that I have work to do, so should cut the call, all he ever asked was, hows everything, is the food good, and study well. Nothing else, and I would feel it's much at times. Those times were also different from some problems in the family, but that wasn't a reason to be what I was being at that time. 
And now I see, it's somewhat the same, he is there sitting, spending time on his phone, or staring at the wall, It aches when he stares at the wall, I want to ask him so many questions, that what are you thinking, how are you feeling, I want to ask about his childhood, me a 20-year-old guy who gets nostalgic about things that happened 10 years ago, who feels good about things that happened just a few years back, i Imagine How much happiness and joy it'll bring If I ask him about it. 
but it's that hesitation to ask, anything, I don't know what it is, I just can't, I can talk all this easily to my mother, without any second thought, but there is something that stops, I don't want it to stop me, but it is just hard, and I hope I do it, I know he'll love it but won't say, but I just hope I get that courage of asking, what are you thinking. and How are you? sometimes with some people asking the easiest things are the hardest. There is just some history and things in between that you just want to throw aside and talk, but the thoughts don't do a good job of removing and erasing that history.
I have got Quite a few birthday gifts, my uncle gave me a piano, friends a photo frame, sister a Fitbit, girlfriend a watch and a shoe-shaped sharpener, but nothing came close to the Greeting card my father sent when I was in UKG, and he was posted in Kupwara (J&K) on opening it would Sing Happy Birthday to you. It was priceless, I would love to have that back, but got misplaced somewhere. 
another thing I remember, It's special because of the age but, one fond memory which also shows how little we knew about the world, My dad used to come home twice a year, with a lot of chocolates, but the part that I loved the most was, he used to keep a 10 rupees note under my pillow before leaving, and I like an idiot would be sleeping like Kumbhakaran, Not knowing the magnitude of the situation. 
There are not many memories with my dad, but the ones I have are really very cherishable. 
Fathers day is a tough day for me, it makes me realise how bad of a son I am, who can go up to him and hug him, I envy the people who are close with their dads, like very close, I just hope you guys never come in a situation where asking simple questions would be tough. Still happy for you guys, also I won't be sharing this blog to anyone, If anyone is reading so fine, if not, still doesn't matter, it's not even for the people, it is one of those blogs that I want them to be there, but I don't want people to read it. but if they do it's still fine,.

I just hope people don't just cut cakes and get busy with their work, sit there and talk to them, they'll like it. I tried it too, he was busy typing a long message on WhatsApp so didn't reply, but I was happy I tried. 

There is a lot of respect for dads, no matte some certain circumstances.
Happy Fathers Day dad.


