---
title: "Forgetting a problem"
date: 'Jan 10, 2022'
excerpt: 'I started learning a new programming language in April 2020. It opened a new horizon, which expanded the...'
cover_image: '/images/contentImages/forgetting-a-problem-head.jpg'
area: 'perceptions'
---

I started learning a new programming language in April 2020. It opened a new horizon, which expanded the opportunities of creating new projects. It was fun working with it, and people love working with stuff only when everything is going according to them unless they face a real challenge. Most people see 3 options when they find themselves in a similar scenario. They either Stick around and proceed only after completing the challenge. Find a loophole and keep moving forward, or just quit.

The first time I experienced it was in class 8. We had a subject called profit and loss, Mathematics kinda became a subject I liked at that time, solving problems was fun. I felt like a genius for not referring to the notebook. It was only a matter of time until I realised that I was solving only straightforward problems. There was this question, I don't remember the details, but we had to use multiple formulas to reach the final solutions. I wasn't anything close to smart, average at best, I could've looked it up in the notebook to refer to the solution and move forward, for some reason I decided to solve it on my own, maybe I took it on my ego? or something else, but that's the first time I actually sat down to solve something on my own. Problem-solving was never my thing, never pushed myself to solve problems on my own, would usually give up if things were difficult. One thing that I've noticed is that I was always the median of every class I attended. This happens when you are content with where you stand, I never failed a subject, and never was at the top, I think I believed that that's my true potential and stayed there, unfortunately.

But what about the maths question I was solving? Gave up after a couple of days, looked up the solution in the notebook and moved on without thinking about it.

This was one mistake I made, limiting myself to mediocrity. When I was learning this new language last year, There was this problem I was stuck with a problem related to a database connection. It felt like falling in quicksand, the more you try to get out, the harder it becomes to escape. It was the first time I stayed up late to solve a programming related problem, not because I was good at it to never face a bug, just because all I did was the basic stuff, never tried exploring a topic while experimenting with it, so it was the first time I worked on something beyond my comfort level. I was stuck there. There was no progress no matter what I did, It became tiresome so I decided to take some rest and come back later. The next day, I sat on my desk and got back on it. It took ~30mins to reach the solution, I thought that it was just luck that I was able to look at the problem from a fresh perspective.

A few months later I was stuck on a website hosting problem at work. We tried a lot of ways but were not able to deploy the code that I wrote. This was critical as if I couldn't deploy it, that'd mean all the code I wrote in the last 1 month would go down the drain. I was banging my head, jumping from one forum to another, asking for help, I was helpless. This reminded me of the database instance, where I took a break and solved the problem by having a new perspective towards the problem. Having no other go, I did that, took a break worked on something else, logged out, came back the next day and the problem was still budging me. 6 hours and no progress. I was really helpless. I decided to complete other pending tasks.

On the weekend I decided to get over the deployment issue. All the code I wrote for over a month didn't see the light of day, was sitting in a repository, wanting to go through the build pipeline and come out alive on the other side successfully.

I decided to do something that I despise, inspecting the root of the issue. Doing this feels like cleaning a gutter, no one want's to do that, but it's something that solves a ton of problems. I started breaking down each step into a WH question, and within a couple of focused hours, I was able to solve it, this time the issue was focused and scratching the surface.

All this finally led me to the biggest issue I've faced at work. The organization that I work for isn't that huge, we don't have data coming in like Amazon, Zomato, Flipkart or some other tech giant. I haven't worked on scaling things yet, but have been lucky to work closely with logistics that help in delivering products to your home. We often work with third-party companies which offer their services. To talk with those services, there are some things which are called API's. A small example is When you post a photo on Instagram how is it automatically posted on Facebook. Instagram basically uses some Facebook API"s to post the same photo on Facebook.

Similarly, we had a requirement of integrating a 3rd party service with something we were building for our organization. The service that we had to integrate was built on something dead when I took birth. A technology that has been dead, and something that no one uses anymore, everyone moved on, but not them. I had to integrate that same service. Since that thing was dead 20 years ago, not much was written about it on the internet lately, there weren't enough articles about it, there was literally no one in my circle who'd have heard about it when I asked it in public forums, they turned their back and said me to upgrade myself, It was a really bad problem, I got in touch with the team that maintained it, they weren't comfortable with the tools I used, and vice versa. Fully brain-dead, I spent a week deep thinking about how to solve this problem. There were two clear paths in front of me, bang my head and keep trying to implement it in a language I was comfortable in and ship faster, or learn a new language and reinvent the wheel and ship slowly.

I didn't do either, I took a shortcut, and developed other features, I tried a lot, I took their help, nothing worked, I was fed up with that, every google link I opened was a dead end. Finally, until yesterday, I once again decided to work on it. I took the method I despised. starting from the roots, I went on a reading spree, read one document after another, read the same thing 10 times to grasp 2% of the concept, finally dug deep into archives and read papers, which lead me to a single point of failure, a simple keyword which was missing all along. One small keyword, 3 letters long, just 3 letters, It took me months to find those 3 letters because no one solved that exact same problem in a public forum or any other codebase.

I got the desired output, I was the happiest man on earth, Couldn't stop smiling, I started air-punching, Took a deep breath, drank some water and started implementing the solution.

This is something I love about solving a problem, the answers are around us, it is the 'aha' moment we all are working for, these small moments can light up your day. One moment you are 10ft deep in shit, next moment you are receiving the guard of honour in your mind for solving the issue. Not giving up on the problem will take you from point A to point B, and finding the route on your own gives you an unexplainable high. Unexplainable because I am bad at articulating stuff. Wish I could go back and tell this to my younger self, he is probably watching Taarak Mehta and simping on Babita Ji, only if I could tell him, taarak won't solve his problems, neither will looking at a pre-defined solution.

But as they say, 'only if' is one of the most stupid things you'll ever say, which adds 0 to your current growth.