---
title: "Problems"
date: 'Nov 23, 2021'
excerpt: 'I was solving some problems, there are a lot of problems...'
cover_image: ''
area: 'perceptions'
---
I was solving some problems, there are a lot of problems that a person solves to learn coding/programming, There are people stuck at different levels of it, some trying to set up their coding environment, some trying to learn syntaxes, some banging their head with complex algorithms, and then there is this gifted person who, just knows the logic to every problem.

I started learning to code in 11th, and it took a few years for me to confidently write a function that could perform a basic addition. It is something which we can learn in just 1 day if you are familiar with the basic syntax of the language you are coding in, but somehow it took me a few years to reach there. I just went on with the topics as they came, never sat and solved anything, I can't remember the last time I was as dedicated to something as solving integrals in High school, there were days I didn't sleep, they kept me up at night, which is probably why I cried after a horrible maths final exam. But anyway, talking about how it took me a year to learn something that just takes a day. Lack of intent from my side most probably, I would look at the laptop screen with the exact face like the dog in this picture, going from one folder to another, not really working, until one day, when I was dedicated to code, I took out the laptop started working, solved a few, got stuck and left. 

Didn't try much once I got stuck, slowly and steadily I got into the habit of googling methods and solutions where I got stuck, sometimes the solution was direct, sometimes indirect, opening 10+ tabs at a time looking for a line of code became very common, and with just 4GB of Ram, even chrome wasn't very kind with me, but then the habit kept on building, and I wouldn't sleep without finding a solution, a slow laptop made me patient too, I was calm and composed in my room, googling, opening multiple tabs, and solving problems, then came, it took quite a time to understand what was going on, the best part about the process was, eventho I wasn't getting the final solution, I was learning a few other things in the process which I could apply in other places, once I decided to stick with problems It felt as if I decoded the way of learning, but it wasn't something I was eager to apply everywhere, some problems just made me jump over them, rather than spending time on that, I just tried wasting it somewhere else. 
Today I thought of going thru my lab manual for the upcoming practicals, I opened the first experiment, tried for like 5 minutes, got an error, tried resolving it, got bored, and closed the manual. Didn't try it, went on to play chess followed by youtube, then in the evening, I tried to do it again, but had the intent of debugging it, sat around for while saw referred to some sources, came to know that the file I was uploading was the wrong one, such a basic error, but made me scratch my head, went thru some other materials, got to learn some other things from there, in this lockdown, I am trying to console myself with these small learning achievements, thinking I did something today, which is better than nothing and then continue watching youtube. This blog will also make me feel like an accomplishment, which will allow me to scroll thru insta without any guilt. Otherwise it the overall mood at the end of every day is the dog in the above picture.