---
title: 'Refuge'
date: 'Feb 25, 2022'
excerpt: "I've spent more than half of my life in the Cantonment area. I have seen the life of a ..."
cover_image: '/images/contentImages/Refuge_head.jpg'
area: 'perceptions'
---

I've spent more than half of my life in the Cantonment area. I have seen the life of a soldier, from their morning routine till their bedtime. In school, we took a pledge every day about how we should treat the people around us and keep the nation above all. I never questioned that thought growing up in a surrounding where every 2nd person was in the Army. We had to internalize that thought which we did. It became one of those things which we agree to, but never care to know why. I had a vague thought in my mind about it, I knew about the wars we fought against Pakistan and China to protect our land. But I never cared to dig deep into it and understand why it was important to fight.

I couldn't resonate much with Vijay Diwas, the day we won the Kargil war, I knew it was a big deal but never felt it. I knew about war heroes but never cared to understand why they fought. A simple answer to that question was to save our land, but it wasn't convincing enough. Growing up in that surrounding I always wanted to join the Army as an Officer. I had seen that lifestyle, and to be very honest, I wanted to join for the lifestyle. This is why I lost interest in it. That sole reason to join the army as an Officer wasn't enough to push through limits. I needed something more concrete and a more passionate reason. While I was losing interest I kept having this recurring half baked thought, which made me question a few things. I saw a couple on Instagram, they roam around Europe most of the time and spend 3 months in India throughout the year. I wasn't jealous or so, they were someone I admired a lot in tech. They were living my dream which made me believe that it's possible. Anyway, that's not the point. The thought that kept on coming to my mind was, why do I have to spend all my time in a single country. In a more clichéd term, I wanted to be a citizen of the world, and not spend whole my life being a citizen of a single country. I couldn't think why would someone, stay in a single country their whole life. I wanted to understand my place and not let my birthplace decide my citizenship. I know people change citizenship and move out. But some people confuse "love for the country" and "moving out because of discovering other cultures". People tend to think that both events are mutually exclusive. which is something that bothered me a lot. Being gullible to people's opinions since childhood I believed that for the better part of my teenage years.

It Did not make sense to me, why won't they try to change citizenships willingly if you have that kind of money. At a point, I even thought that I was being an Anti nationalist minus the hatred for the country. I still loved India but never understood why would someone sacrifice their life for a place they took birth. (I know there are many cases where people join the army because of desperation, I am not talking about them). The only consequence I could think of losing a piece of land was that now you have lesser land compared to before. I know it sounds stupid. But remember, this is coming from someone who slept through history classes and never read books. I watched movies like Fury, Inglourious Basterds and Saving Private Ryan to know about it. So this is what I kept on thinking, about being a citizen of the world instead of limiting your identity to one nation where you were BORN. The thought does not sound very substantial and I was questioning a very cliched thought, but that's the sole purpose of this blog. To dump what goes in my mind.

A friend sent a quote from a book, about how we take stuff for granted. About how we don't care much about it until all of it topples. I had the same feeling today when I heard the news from Ukraine, even though it did not affect me directly. It still answered a lot of my questions.

People had to leave their stuff behind, their home, valuables, stuff they were attached to. People who spent/built all their life there had to move to a new place, grabbing and putting random stuff in a suitcase and moving out in panic. This is when I started realizing how ignorant and stupid I was being when I thought about limiting our citizenship to a single country. I was blinded by that thought, a sweet feeling of living in a fairytale. where nothing bothers you directly, because of that I never cared to understand why citizenships were created in the first place. Seeing people in Ukraine made me realize how important is to have a place to call our home. A place where you can feel safe, where no one can come near you, no one can harm or hurt you. People want to bear on all the suffering so that the people you love don't have to go through the same thing. Protecting our homes so that no one could come and hurt us. As Russia did to Ukraine, I can't even imagine how helpless the people of Ukraine must be feeling.

I finally got the answers to that recurring thought at least, the real reason why Vijay Diwas is such a big deal. No one want's their home to be attacked, a place where your family sleep peacefully knowing no one can come and harm them there. It'd have been easier to answer this recurring thought if I'd have read about the fights for a piece of land when there were no definite boundaries. People would kill like barbarians and occupy lands until someone else would defeat them.

Luckily we have this place, this country we can call our home. There is a nice dialogue in the movie Airlift. "Aadmi ki fitrat hi Aisi hai, jab chot lagti hai, sabse pehle 'Maa' hi chillata hai'". This is why one should control those colourful thoughts of being a citizen of the world. It's a good thing to roam, visit places, discover cultures, no problem in that. It's fine to stay outside your country most of the time if you are safe and sound. At the end that is what matters. But one of the best feelings is to fall on your OWN bed even after having a ball in the best places on earth. When we visit our village the minor things that bother us in the cities are embraced. No one complaints, they do not care about the first world problems, they have had their fair share of hardships. But when we go and live there, for a month, we understand our own capabilities and limitations. And all it feels worthwhile because you feel attached to your roots. While doing things your family members did for ages without complaining.

Home is something worth fighting for. Because, at the end of the day, that's where you can find yourself safe and comfortable. No matter an individual's economic status, a home is where they are headed after a day of hardship. I hope the people of Ukraine find peace, and the strength to fight for what belongs to them, what they've built. 