---
title: "SCG 2021"
date: 'Jan 1, 2021'
excerpt: 'I decided not to do anything after dinner, just set the alarm for 5AM, and sleep.'
cover_image: '/images/contentImages/scg.jpg'
area: 'perceptions'
---

Jan 10th I decided not to do anything after dinner, just set the alarm for 5AM, and sleep. 

I never woke up for any Border-Gavaskar trophy match that was held in Australia, I would assume the day's scenario, go to sleep and google "Ind v Aus" first thing in the morning, check the score, feel for it, and move on with the day, I would skim thru test, and wouldn't watch it unless the match was at a decisive point.

In this series everything is going against India since the first Test, Lost from a great position, Kohli left, Shami Injured, Ishant not here, Umesh Injured, KL injured, Rahane led the team towards the victory as a captain and as a batsman. Probably will be remembered for years because of the character the Team showed after 36 all out in Adelaide.

Series levelled up and the teams arrived in Sydney. Little did we all know that this is gonna be one of the finest Test matches ever. Australia got a great start, Steve Smith and Marnus played a great knock and sailed the Aussie boat across 300, India fell short of 90+ runs while playing the second innings, Australia comfortably gave India a Target of 407 after declaring on Day 4 at Tea India had 40 + 97 overs to play, 40 overs after the tea and 97 on the final day of the test. The openers came out to bat, got a nice and steady start, Rohit scored a half-century in the 4th Innings, Shubman stood by him, but by the end of the day both departed at 92, and then Rahane and Pujara had the responsibility to end the day on a high without losing any more wickets.
Everyone thought India wouldn't even be able to draw the test, no one had batted the whole day, Indians were still optimistic about it, deep down no matter how much pain we suppressed, but had all the faith on Pujara and Rahane, because the Indian Tailenders were weak, Pant had a minor injury,he couldn't even keep the wickets, Saha replaced him, Jadeja was not able to peel a banana with that dislocation near his left thumb, and Vihari was not able to get big runs throughout the series. Hence all the responsibility was on Pujara and Rahane, but guess what? Rahane got dismissed early in the day, and Rishab came in to bat. Oh boy, no one knew a storm was entering in the SCG on that day in the form of Rishab Pant. 
Now we had Pujara and Pant on strike, both of them are like the North and South pole, Like fire and ice, their playing style is so different, poles apart, Pujara is someone who will make the bowlers beg for mercy, whereas Pant is someone who loves to punish the bowlers and hit them for fours and sixes, pant score 5 of 35 and then he unleashed hell on the Aussies. Went on and on, reached 97, try to go for a big one against the off-spinner( which he did many times in this innings) but a thick bottom edge and got caught. It felt like Sehwag and Dravid came down to bat there together, what a brilliant session it was, People doubted if India will be able to draw the test on Day 4 end, but they started talking about the odds of winning, such a brilliant display of batting After pant Pujara also departed after scoring 77 of 205 balls. What a legend of the game.
With the dismissal of Pant and Pujara, people again doubted if India will be able to save it from here. No one knew that whatever they saw till now was the first half of this movie, Hanuma and Ashwin were on strike for the climax.
But wait there must be some twists in order to make the second half better right? Hanuma Vihari pulled his Hampstring and was barely able to run, Ashwin couldn't bend to even tie his shoelaces in the morning, If someone would have said that these two batsmen will play for 3+ hours in this conditions against one of the greatest Aussie pace attack, on the 4th Innings, on an SCG 5th day pitch, People would claim you to be a stupid who doesn't know anything about cricket. But guess what, both of them played 289 deliveries(48 overs) and survived till the end. Imagine this match to be Lion's food, Team Indian went on to steal it from Lion's mouth. This is how great this Test match was, and the cherry on top one of the most beautiful moments from the test, Jadeja, with an injured finger, sitting in the dressing room padded up, ready to play and serve the team whenever needed, what a beautiful display of patriotism and selflessness for the nation, Team India and it's players won a billion +every test match lover's heart today 
What a beautiful game, it can make us celebrate even Draw